branch (#13999)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/branch-github-integration.md

---

> title: Branching GitHub Integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Integrate TiDB Serverless Branches with GitHub
```

> summary: Learn how to use the Branching GitHub integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to integrate TiDB Serverless branches with GitHub
```
```

---

# Branching GitHub Integration (Beta)

> **Note:**
>

> > Branching GitHub integration is based on the TiDB Serverless Branch. Make sure you are familiar with [TiDB Serverless Branch](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md) before you read this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Branching GitHub integration is based on the TiDB Serverless Branch. Make sure you are familiar with [TiDB Serverless Branch](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md) before you read this document.
```

| Close or merge a pull request      | When you close or merge a pull request, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app deletes the branch for this pull request.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Reopen a pull request              | When you reopen a pull request, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app creates a branch for the lasted commit of the pull request.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> ## Configuring TiDB Cloud Branching app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure TiDB Cloud Branching app
```

To configure the behaviors of [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app, you can add a `tidbcloud.yml` file to the root directory of your repository, and then add the desired configurations to this file according to the following instructions.

### branch.blockList

**Type:** array of string. **Default:** `[]`.

Specify the GitHub branches that forbid the TiDB Cloud Branching app, even if they are in the `allowList`.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

github:
    branch:
       blockList:
           - ".*_doc"
           - ".*_blackList"
```

### branch.allowList

**type:** array of string. **Default:** `[.*]`.

Specify the GitHub branches that allow the TiDB Cloud Branching app.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

github:
    branch:
       allowList:
           - ".*_db"
```

### branch.autoReserved

**Type:** boolean. **Default:** `false`.

If it is set to `true`, the TiDB Cloud Branching app will not delete the TiDB Serverless branch that is created in the previous commit.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

github:
    branch:
       autoReserved: false
```

### branch.autoDestroy

**Type:** boolean. **Default:** `true`.

If it is set to `false`, the TiDB Cloud Branching app will not delete the TiDB Serverless branch when a pull request is closed or merged.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

   You can use the [wait-for-tidbcloud-branch](https://github.com/tidbcloud/wait-for-tidbcloud-branch) action to wait for the readiness of the TiDB Serverless branch and get the connection information of the branch.

    Example usage:

   ```yaml
   steps:
     - name: Wait for TiDB Serverless branch to be ready
       uses: tidbcloud/wait-for-tidbcloud-branch@v0
       id: wait-for-branch
       with:
         token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
         public-key: ${{ secrets.TIDB_CLOUD_API_PUBLIC_KEY }}
         private-key: ${{ secrets.TIDB_CLOUD_API_PRIVATE_KEY }}

     - name: Test with TiDB Serverless branch
        run: |
           echo "The host is ${{ steps.wait-for-branch.outputs.host }}"
           echo "The user is ${{ steps.wait-for-branch.outputs.user }}"
           echo "The password is ${{ steps.wait-for-branch.outputs.password }}"
   ```

3. Modify your test code.

   Modify your test code to accept the connection information from GitHub Actions. For example, you can accept the connection information through the environment, as demonstrated in the [live demo](https://github.com/shiyuhang0/tidbcloud-branch-gorm-example).

## What's next

> You can also build your branching CI/CD workflow without the branching GitHub integration. For example, you can use [tidbcloud-cli](https://github.com/tidbcloud/setup-tidbcloud-cli) and GitHub Actions to customize your CI/CD workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also build your branching CI/CD workflow without the branching GitHub integration. For example, you can use [`setup-tidbcloud-cli`](https://github.com/tidbcloud/setup-tidbcloud-cli) and GitHub Actions to customize your CI/CD workflows.
```

---

> title: Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching with GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching with GitHub (Beta)
```

> title: Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching with GitHub (Beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching (Beta) with GitHub 
```

summary: Learn how to integrate the TiDB Serverless branching feature with GitHub.
---

> # Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching with GitHub (Beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching (Beta) with GitHub 
```

> **Note:**
>
> The integration is built upon [TiDB Serverless branches](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md). Before reading this document, make sure that you are familiar with [TiDB Serverless branches](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md).

> If you use GitHub for application development, you can integrate TiDB Serverless branching into your GitHub CI/CD pipeline, which lets you connect your GitHub repository with your TiDB Serverless cluster.

Author: which lets you connect your GitHub repository with your TiDB Serverless cluster.
which lets you 听起来是`目的`感觉不太好：集成的目的不是让你连接 repo 和 servlerss，连接 repo 和 servlerss 是如何集成。
集成的目的之一是你下面介绍的 `work on new features or bug fixes in isolation without affecting the main database`

> In the integration process, you will be asked to install the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub app. The app can automatically manage TiDB Serverless branches according to pull requests in your GitHub repository. For example, when you create a pull request, the app will create a corresponding branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster, in which you can work on new features or bug fixes in isolation without affecting the main database.

Author: ```suggestion
In the integration process, you will be asked to install the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub app. The app can automatically manage TiDB Serverless branches according to pull requests in your GitHub repository. For example, when you create a pull request, the app will create a corresponding branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster, in which you can work on new features or bug fixes in isolation without affecting the production database.
```

> If you use GitHub for application development, you can integrate TiDB Serverless branching into your GitHub CI/CD pipeline, which lets you connect your GitHub repository with your TiDB Serverless cluster.
> 
> In the integration process, you will be asked to install the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub app. The app can automatically manage TiDB Serverless branches according to pull requests in your GitHub repository. For example, when you create a pull request, the app will create a corresponding branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster, in which you can work on new features or bug fixes in isolation without affecting the production database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use GitHub for application development, you can integrate the TiDB Serverless branching feature into your GitHub CI/CD pipeline. With the integration, you can automatically get branches for a TiDB Serverless cluster by creating pull requests or committing changes, and then test your new features or bug fixes in these branches without affecting the production database.

In the integration process, you will be prompted to install the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub app. The app can automatically manage TiDB Serverless branches according to pull requests in your GitHub repository. For example, when you create a pull request, the app will create a corresponding branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster.
```

> In the integration process, you will be asked to install the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub app. The app can automatically manage TiDB Serverless branches according to pull requests in your GitHub repository. For example, when you create a pull request, the app will create a corresponding branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster, in which you can work on new features or bug fixes in isolation without affecting the production database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the integration process, you will be prompted to install the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub app. The app can automatically manage TiDB Serverless branches according to pull requests in your GitHub repository. For example, when you create a pull request, the app will create a corresponding branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster, in which you can work on new features or bug fixes in isolation without affecting the production database.
```

This document covers the following topics:

> 1. How to integrate your TiDB Serverless branches with GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. How to integrate TiDB Serverless branching with GitHub
```

> 2. How **TiDB Cloud Branching** works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. How does the TiDB Cloud Branching app work
```

> 3. How to build a branching-based CI workflow to test every pull request using a branch rather than using the production cluster

Author: ```suggestion
3. How to build a branching-based CI workflow to test every pull request using branches rather than the production cluster
```

## Before you begin

Before the integration, make sure that you have the following:

- A GitHub account
- A GitHub repository for your application
- [A TiDB Serverless cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster-serverless.md)

## Integrate TiDB Serverless branching with your GitHub repository

To integrate TiDB Serverless branching with your GitHub repository, take the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [Clusters](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your target TiDB Serverless cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Branches** in the left navigation pane.

3. In the upper-right corner of the **Branches** page, click **Connect to GitHub**.

    - If you have not logged into GitHub, you will be asked to log into GitHub first.
    - If it is the first time you use the integration, you will be asked to authorize the **TiDB Cloud Branching** app.

>     ![github-authorize.png](../media/tidb-cloud/branch/github-authorize.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![github-authorize.png](/media/tidb-cloud/branch/github-authorize.png)
```

4. In the **Connect to GitHub** dialog, select a GitHub account in the **GitHub Account** drop-down list.

    If your account does not exist in the list, click **Install Other Account**, and then follow the on-screen instructions to install the account.

>     ![github-install.png](../media/tidb-cloud/branch/github-install.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![github-install.png](/media/tidb-cloud/branch/github-install.png)
```

5. Select your target repository in the **GitHub Repository** drop-down list. If the list is long, you can search the repository by typing the name.

6. Click **Connect** to connect between your TiDB Serverless cluster and your GitHub repository.

>     ![github-connect.png](../media/tidb-cloud/branch/github-connect.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![github-connect.png](/media/tidb-cloud/branch/github-connect.png)
```

## TiDB Cloud Branching app behaviors

> After you connect your TiDB Serverless cluster to your GitHub repository, for each pull request in this repository, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub app can automatically manage its corresponding TiDB Serverless branch as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you connect your TiDB Serverless cluster to your GitHub repository, for each pull request in this repository, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) GitHub App can automatically manage its corresponding TiDB Serverless branch. The following lists the default behaviors for pull request changes:
```

| Pull request changes  |  TiDB Cloud Branching App behaviors |
|---------------------- |------------------------------------ |

> | Create a pull request | When you create a pull request in the repository, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app creates a branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster. The branch name is in the `${github_branch_name}_${pr_id}_${commit_sha}` format. |

Reviewer: 这里是否需要写下 branch 的 quota，超过 5 个 open 的 PR，是不是就建不起 branch 了

Author: 是的，加一下

> | Create a pull request              | When you create a pull request in the repository, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app creates a branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster. The branch name is in the `${github_branch_name}_${pr_id}_${commit_sha}` format. Please note the [limit](/tidbcloud/branch-overview.md#limitations-and-quotas) on the number of branches. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Create a pull request              | When you create a pull request in the repository, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app creates a branch for your TiDB Serverless cluster. The branch name is in the `${github_branch_name}_${pr_id}_${commit_sha}` format. Note that the number of branches has a [limit](/tidbcloud/branch-overview.md#limitations-and-quotas). |
```

| Push new commits to a pull request | Every time you push a new commit to a pull request in the repository, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app deletes the previous TiDB Serverless branch and creates a new branch for the latest commit. |
| Close or merge a pull request | When you close or merge a pull request, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app deletes the branch for this pull request. |
| Reopen a pull request | When you reopen a pull request, the [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app creates a branch for the lasted commit of the pull request. |

## Configuring TiDB Cloud Branching app

> To configure the behaviors of [TiDB Cloud Branching](https://github.com/apps/tidb-cloud-branching) app, you can add a `tidbcloud.yml` file to the root directory of your repository, and then add the desired configurations to this file according to the following instructions.

Reviewer: 这里不太确定，是不是需要用户自己去仓库的根目录下添加 `tidbcloud.yml` 呢，如果是，加到哪个分支呢

Author: 是去根目录添加。添加到所有需要的分支，或者在 pr 里加也能生效。和 vercel 这边的配置文件一样 https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/project-configuration/git-configuration。
感觉不必说清楚加在哪个分支上，只要这个 pr 里包含了

> 

Reviewer: blackList 和 whiteList 要尽量避免使用，代码可以改成 blockList 和 allowList 吗？

Author: 好的

### branch.blockList

> **type:** Array of string. **Default:** `[]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Type:** array of string. **Default:** `[]`.
```

> Specify the GitHub branches that forbid the TiDB Cloud Branching app, even if they are in the allowList.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specify the GitHub branches that forbid the TiDB Cloud Branching app, even if they are in the `allowList`.
```

```
github:
    branch:
       blockList:
           - ".*_doc"
           - ".*_blackList"
```

### branch.allowList

> **type:** Array of string. **Default:** `[.*]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**type:** array of string. **Default:** `[.*]`.
```

Specify the GitHub branches that allow the TiDB Cloud Branching app.

```
github:
    branch:
       allowList:
           - ".*_db"
```

### branch.autoReserved

> **type:** boolean. **Default:** `false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Type:** boolean. **Default:** `false`.
```

If it is set to `true`, the TiDB Cloud Branching app will not delete the TiDB Serverless branch that is created in the previous commit.

```
github:
    branch:
       autoReserved: false
```

### branch.autoDestroy

> **type:** boolean. **Default:** `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Type:** boolean. **Default:** `true`.
```

Here are the main steps to create the workflow:

1. [Integrate TiDB Serverless branching with your GitHub repository](#integrate-tidb-serverless-branching-with-your-github-repository).

2. Get the branch connection information.

   You can use the [wait-for-tidbcloud-branch](https://github.com/tidbcloud/wait-for-tidbcloud-branch) action to wait for the readiness of the TiDB Serverless branch and get the connection information of the branch.

    Example usage:

   ```
   steps:
     - name: Wait for TiDB Serverless branch to be ready
       uses: tidbcloud/wait-for-tidbcloud-branch@v0
       id: wait-for-branch
       with:
         token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
         public-key: ${{ secrets.TIDB_CLOUD_API_PUBLIC_KEY }}
         private-key: ${{ secrets.TIDB_CLOUD_API_PRIVATE_KEY }}

     - name: Test with TiDB Serverless branch
        run: |
           echo "The host is ${{ steps.wait-for-branch.outputs.host }}"
           echo "The user is ${{ steps.wait-for-branch.outputs.user }}"
           echo "The password is ${{ steps.wait-for-branch.outputs.password }}"
   ```

3. Modify your test code.

>    Modify your test code to accept the connection information from GitHub action. For example, you can accept the connection information through the environment, as demonstrated in the [live demo](https://github.com/shiyuhang0/tidbcloud-branch-gorm-example).

Reviewer: https://github.com/shiyuhang0/tidbcloud-branch-gorm-example 里有 accept the connection information 的演示吗

Author: 应该没有，我后续可以加一下

>    ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```yaml
```

>    Modify your test code to accept the connection information from GitHub action. For example, you can accept the connection information through the environment, as demonstrated in the [live demo](https://github.com/shiyuhang0/tidbcloud-branch-gorm-example).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Modify your test code to accept the connection information from GitHub Actions. For example, you can accept the connection information through the environment, as demonstrated in the [live demo](https://github.com/shiyuhang0/tidbcloud-branch-gorm-example).
```

## What's next

> You can also build your branching CI/CD workflow without the branching GitHub integration. For example, you can use [tidbcloud-cli](https://github.com/tidbcloud/setup-tidbcloud-cli) and GitHub actions to customize your CI/CD workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also build your branching CI/CD workflow without the branching GitHub integration. For example, you can use [tidbcloud-cli](https://github.com/tidbcloud/setup-tidbcloud-cli) and GitHub Actions to customize your CI/CD workflows.
```

---

> title: Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching with GitHub

Reviewer 3: Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching or TiDB Serverless Branch with GitHub?

I prefer TiDB Serverless Branch, branching refers to the whole integration workflow.

Reviewer: If we use "Integrate TiDB Serverless Branching with GitHub", it gives the impression that we need to first create a branch for TiDB Serverless, and then integrate the branch with GitHub. But the integration process does not require users to create a branch in advance.

Author: <img width="786" alt="image" src="https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/52435083/03f1042f-97b6-48e9-9eb7-a551c9829ffe">
<img width="770" alt="image" src="https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/52435083/4673c5cf-9316-43d1-afc7-26a96a36cc11">

Author: branching means a feature or the whole integration workflow. I prefer branching here

Reviewer: +1
